Path through experiences pattern:

1. Interaction Style -> Explorable Interface
2a. Explorable Interface -> Rewarding Sounds
2b. Explorable Interface -> Single Setting
3. Single Setting -> Goal-Oriented Areas
4. Goal-Oriented Areas -> Menubar

Description:

As recommended in the paper, we start with the meta-pattern Interaction Style,
which defines the way a user might interact with our system. We have four available
interaction styles to choose from according to the pattern language. Of these options,
I chose the Explorable Interface pattern. As described in the paper, it is important
to consider the needs of our users when choosing the best Interaction Style. An
Explorable Interface "presents task concepts visually", which I believe provides a
more straightforward and seamless user experience for users of all levels of
computer literacy. That being said, in future iterations of this application
considerations regarding accessibility should be prioritized given that a visual-based
Interaction Style cannot be used by all.

Next, for our Explorable Interface we have a variety of patterns to choose from, with
the core decision being if the majority of user interaction will require Single or
Multiple Settings support. Because our XML application contains a single conceptual
focus, I chose the Single Setting pattern. The paper notes that this choice is best for
packages in which "the focus is usually on the manipulation of a certain contextual type
of task or data", such as simple word processors and text editors, which is similar to the
goal of the XML application. Therefore Single Setting presented as the best option 
to not over-clutter our application and obscure the user from their goals. Also, to
account for the visual based Explorable Interface, I chose to add the Rewarding Sounds
pattern as a way of incorporating audio feedback into the user experience.

Within the Single Setting, I chose the Goal-Oriented Areas pattern to organize the
application's layout according to the user’s tasks. For example, the left area of the UI 
will show the document tree for structure navigation, while the middle provides the editing
workspace. Finally the bottom area displays validation messages or output. Using this pattern
aids users in clearly seeing how the interface supports their goals and keeps related 
tools grouped logically.

Finally, to tie the interface together and provide the user with navigation abilities
throught the application, I chose the Menubar pattern. It offers the user a consistent control 
structure and gives access to global actions outlined in this week's assignment (New, Open, 
View, Edit, Save). This pattern places critical commands in a predictable and consistent
location, meaning the user can quickly find and execute major tasks with little to no
friction. Also, in the spirit of trust-building between the user and the application, 
the menubar also complements the Explorable Interface by offering safe, discoverable entry
points to functionality.